---
extends: _layouts.post
section: content
title: 2024 site refresh
date: 2024-02-02
updated: 2024-04-19
description: Documenting the 2024 ChasingCode site and blog design refresh
tags: [general,jigsaw,tailwind]
featured: true
image: /assets/img/2024-02-02-site-refresh-2024-v1-vs-v2.jpg
image_thumb: /assets/img/2024-02-02-site-refresh-2024-v1-vs-v2-thumb.jpg
image_author:
image_author_url:
image_unsplash:
mastodon_toot_url: 
---

Freshly motivated at the turn of 2024, I started working slowly but steadily on refreshing the ChasingCode site and blog. It took a month of daily tinkering before releasing v2 on February 1st.

Here are some of the design decisions and highlights.

## I almost called it quits

I came close to [deleting the site](/blog/delete-or-refresh-blog/) at the end of 2023. Looking back, I'm glad I didn't. The refresh has given me a new desire to blog (at least for the time being).

## The two main themes of the refresh

I went into this with two overarching themes in mind.

First, I wanted v2 to be more **content-focused** starting with the landing page. Previously, the site index had a lot of yada-yada about me. I moved all of that to separate sections under [about](/about). It includes work experience, hobbies, and side projects.

While initially I saw it as a personal/portfolio site with a blog attached, over time I realized that the landing page had remained frozen in time. Truth be told, I don't think anyone benefited from reading a long list of my personal stuff whenever they loaded the site, especially since that content was mostly static.

Now, the landing page is "alive" with *featured*, *recent*, and *recently updated* posts. There's also a *tag cloud* because I like tag clouds and it reminds me a little of the old web.

Second, I wanted to simplify the design and give it a slight **utilitarian/brutalist vibe**. I was also toying with the idea of going the opposite way by making it very colorful, but in the end I settled on what you see currently. For a first pass I think it looks great, though it's only 2/10 brutal if you ask me.

## Blog engine update

I touched on this [here](/blog/delete-or-refresh-blog/), so I won't rehash it. Basically I upgraded [Jigsaw](https://jigsaw.tighten.com/) to the ~~highest version possible, though not the latest because I'm constrained by Netlify's outdated infrastructure~~ latest version (1.7.1).

## Typography

I came across [Modern Font Stacks](https://modernfontstacks.com/) and immediately embraced the concept. Using native fonts is a great way to improve site performance. I gave up on the initial idea of using fancy fonts and self-hosting them.

Here's how I changed my fonts. I think they look a lot better and load instantly on any platform, without jank.

- **Body font**: `Lato` -> System UI stack `font-family: system-ui, sans-serif;`
- **Heading font**: `Bitter` -> Transitional stack `font-family: Charter, 'Bitstream Charter', 'Sitka Text', Cambria, serif;`
- **Monospace font**: `Consolas` -> Monospace stack (very similar) `font-family: ui-monospace, 'Cascadia Code', 'Source Code Pro', Menlo, Consolas, 'DejaVu Sans Mono', monospace;`

I also changed the blogpost font size from **20px to 16px**. I've become partial to small text lately.

## Article column width

I narrowed the main content column from **~110 characters to ~80 characters**. This makes it easier to scan a line of text and is just over the [recommended 75 max line length](https://baymard.com/blog/line-length-readability).

## Bundle size

My **JS** bundle stayed the same. At 231 KB I think it is too high, but this is coming mainly from Jigsaw and a couple of Vue components. I should really refactor these to Alpine or similar but I don't have the willpower right now.

The **CSS** bundle dropped slightly from 34.7 KB to 31.3 KB. Not a lot, but better than nothing. I can do more optimizations here for sure. For one thing, I think I have one too many breakpoints (both `sm:` and `md:`). For another, I would like to do a color pass at some point and restrict the color palette (currently teal) to 2-3 theme shades instead of 3-4.

## Lighthouse

Lighthouse scores are 100 for performance and almost 100 for the other categories. There are certainly a few improvements I could make here as well.

## Categories are now tags

To me, putting an item in a *category* has always felt the equivalent of putting it in a folder, in other words it can't be in more than one category at the same time. In a default Jigsaw installation, categories act like tags.

I like tags because an item can have more than one *tag*, so it made sense to rename categories to tags.

I also changed tag names from camel case to lowercase or kebab case for multi-word tags. Examples:

- `/blog/categories/Laravel` -> `/blog/tags/laravel`
- `/blog/categories/MySQL` -> `/blog/tags/mysql`
- `/blog/categories/DevTools` -> `/blog/tags/dev-tools`

I think I might also rename the `general` tag to `random`.

## Layout tweaks

There are, of course, many layout improvements on every page, particularly on the landing page, the [blog index](/blog), blog post, [post archive](/archive) and [about section](/about).

## Color palette

One of my redesign goals was to change the color palette from the standard Tailwind `teal` to something else. This kept me going back and forth for days, without a clear result. Teal is rather cold and sterile, and I wanted something more vibrant - a red, purple, or yellow/orange. Because this was holding me back, I decided to leave it as is for now, and continue exploring options after I launch v2.

## Takeaways and the future

I am very happy with how the refresh turned out. It only took one month of late-night work sessions, and I launched it unceremoniously on February 1st. Truthfully, I wasn't expecting to complete it so soon.

The main benefit is that a clean, fresh look motivates me to post more frequently. It remains to be seen how long this newfound enthusiasm will hold, but I've already collected a bunch of ideas on various developer-adjacent topics that I would like to post.

There are many things that I'd like to add and improve, however.

Apart from posting, I'd like to add a **blogroll** section for some of my favorite tech blogs. Then I think it would be cool to have **games** and **books** sections where I briefly mention my favorite games and books from each year. These last two are shaping out to be a lot of work, so I can't promise they will happen.

Finally, I would like to implement a GitHub-based **commenting system** with [utterances](https://github.com/utterance/utterances). Why GitHub? Three reasons: 1) it works well with static websites (and is free to boot), 2) the comments remain under the blog owner's control (unlike 3rd party systems like Disqus), 3) I want to limit commenting to developers (GitHub integration also takes care of authentication).

To conclude, I had fun redesigning the site, and I deem the refresh a big success. Let me know how you feel in the socials and I'll catch you in the next blogpost.